## Anallysis and design of algorithms
Welcome, this repository contains Java implementations of various algorithms studied in the Analysis and Design of Algorithms course.

## Folder Structure

The workspace contains the following folders:

- `src`: The folder to maintain source code.
- `lib`: The folder to maintain dependencies.
- `bin`: The folder where compiled output files will be generated by default.


## Implemented Algorithms
This repository includes implementations of the following algorithms:

1. **Quicksort**: A fast sorting algorithm using the divide-and-conquer approach.
2. **Mergesort**: A stable sorting algorithm using the divide-and-conquer approach.
3. **Knapsack Problem**:
   - **Dynamic Programming Method**: An efficient way to solve the problem by breaking it down into simpler subproblems.
   - **Greedy Method**: An approximate solution that makes the most optimal choice at each step.
4. **Dijkstra's Algorithm**: A shortest-path algorithm for finding the shortest paths between nodes in a graph.

## Cloning the Project

If you want to clone the project, you can do so by following these steps:

1. **Open your terminal or command prompt.**

   - On Windows, you can open Command Prompt or PowerShell.
   - On macOS or Linux, you can open Terminal.

2. **Navigate to the directory where you want to clone the repository.**

   Use the `cd` command to change directories. For example:
        `cd path/to/your/directory`

3. **Run the following command to clone the repository:**

     `git clone https://github.com/meAgitHUBuser/DAA_Lab.git`
     

4. **Navigate to cloned repository.**

     `cd DAA_Lab`

5. **Open the project in your preferred IDE or text editor.**

     - If you are using Visual Studio Code, you can open the project by running:
          `code .`
     - For other editors, open the editor and navigate to the cloned directory to open it.
